# DSI_project

The Smith Learning Theater (LT) at the Gottesman Libraries, Teachers College is equipped with a real-time location tracking system - Quuppa. The Quuppa system tracks the position of each participant (wearing a tracking tag) in the 3D space according to a defined frequency. So each tracking record has the ID number of the tracking tag, 3D coordinates - (x,y,z), and a timestamp. The data is stored in tracking log files in json
 
Background: I started with background research on previous applications of Quuppa real-time location tracking system for Teacher’s College. I found past research on the effectiveness of group activities in informal learning environments such as open spaces or workshops. To build upon that work, I focused on my analysis on creating an interactive visual representation of the data so researchers can test preliminary hypotheses on user clustering or movement patterns. 

Methods: To prepare the data, I loaded the json file into a Python DataFrame to run initial data analysis and manipulation. In addition, I used Plotly, a Python API library, to develop the grid to create frames for every time interval of the data. Given that the z coordinates for all smoothedPosition points were 0, I assumed that the third dimension of the data was not relevant. Since there is no standard coordinate representation system for the data, my approach was to create a two dimensional graph that represents a map of the room or open space, scatter plot the data, and use a slider to adjust the the time frame. Since there is no measurement unit, the visualization depicts the relative unit distances between each point. 

Results and Analysis: From running aggregation methods on the dataset, I identified 26 unique users being tracked over a 20 minute time period. No duplicates were identified in the cleaning process. To make the data more conducive for visualization, I categorize the data into 30 second time intervals, grouped by ‘id’, and identify the median X and Y positions. In my final dataframe, each row represents the median position of a user during a given 30 second time interval. 
For the visualization, I created a grid where each column represents a slice of the dataframe by time interval, x coordinate, and y coordinate. With the data in this format, I can create an individual frame of all user position at time interval 1 ( (minute 0 to minute 0:30), time interval 2 (minute 0:30 to minute 1:00), etc. The plotted points represents the location of the 26 users during any given time interval and the time slider allows us to change the time interval. 

Conclusion and Use Cases: Overall, the visualization is an effective tool to understand the overall movements of users across the space. From time slicing the data, it is easy to observe the iterative changes of the users’ position and relate any significant pattern changes to a specific time interval. Provided a coordinate reference system and/or a floor plan of the visualized space, this tool can also show how users are clustering at a specific entity or area. However, I recognize that this tool must be used in conjunction with robust statistical methods such as principal component analysis or Gaussian mixture modeling to produce conclusive results on clustering patterns. Given more time and location information for this analysis, the results of clustering models combined with this visualization can further research on how users navigate a freeform learning experience. 

